NAMECHEAP_DNS_SETUP.md, before:

# Namecheap DNS Setup for docs.cloudeval.ai

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for configuring DNS in Namecheap to use `docs.cloudeval.ai` with GitHub Pages.

## Prerequisites

- Domain `cloudeval.ai` registered with Namecheap
- GitHub repository with GitHub Pages enabled
- GitHub Pages base URL: `ganakailabs.github.io` (or your username/organization)

## Step-by-Step Namecheap DNS Configuration

### Step 1: Access Namecheap Domain List

1. Log in to your Namecheap account
2. Go to **Domain List** from the left sidebar
3. Click **Manage** next to `cloudeval.ai`

### Step 2: Navigate to Advanced DNS

1. Click on the **Advanced DNS** tab
2. You'll see a section called **Host Records**

### Step 3: Add CNAME Record

In the **Host Records** section, click **Add New Record** and configure:

**For the CNAME record:**

- **Type:** Select `CNAME Record` from the dropdown
- **Host:** Enter `docs`
- **Value:** Enter `ganakailabs.github.io` (replace with your GitHub username/organization if different)
- **TTL:** Select `Automatic` (or `30 min` if automatic is not available)

**Important Notes:**

- The **Host** field should be just `docs` (not `docs.cloudeval.ai`)
- The **Value** should be your GitHub Pages base URL: `ganakailabs.github.io` (without `https://` or trailing slashes)
- Do NOT include the repository path in the value

### Step 4: Save the Record

1. Click the **Save All Changes** button (green checkmark icon)
2. Wait for the confirmation message

### Step 5: Verify the Record

After saving, you should see a record like this in your Host Records:

```
Type: CNAME Record
Host: docs
Value: ganakailabs.github.io
TTL: Automatic
```

## Complete Configuration Summary

Here's what your Namecheap DNS should have:

| Type  | Host | Value                 | TTL       |
| ----- | ---- | --------------------- | --------- |
| CNAME | docs | ganakailabs.github.io | Automatic |

## Next Steps (After DNS Configuration)

### 1. Configure GitHub Repository

1. Go to your GitHub repository: `https://github.com/ganakailabs/cloudeval-docs`
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Pages**
3. In the **Custom domain** field, enter: `docs.cloudeval.ai`
4. Click **Save**
5. Wait a few minutes, then check **Enforce HTTPS** and enable it

### 2. Verify CNAME File

The `docs/CNAME` file has been created in the repository. This file will be automatically deployed to the `gh-pages` branch by the GitHub Actions workflow.

The file contains:

```
docs.cloudeval.ai
```

### 3. Wait for DNS Propagation

- **Typical time:** 1-4 hours
- **Maximum time:** Up to 24-48 hours

You can check propagation status at:

- [whatsmydns.net](https://www.whatsmydns.net/#CNAME/docs.cloudeval.ai)
- Or use command line: `dig docs.cloudeval.ai CNAME`

### 4. Wait for SSL Certificate

After DNS propagates, GitHub will automatically provision an SSL certificate:

- Usually takes 10 minutes to 1 hour
- Check status in GitHub Settings → Pages → Custom domain
- Once ready, enable **Enforce HTTPS**

## Verification Commands

After configuring DNS, verify with these commands:

```bash
# Check CNAME record
dig docs.cloudeval.ai CNAME +short

# Expected output:
# ganakailabs.github.io.

# Check if domain resolves
nslookup docs.cloudeval.ai

# Or using dig
dig docs.cloudeval.ai
```

## Troubleshooting

### DNS Not Propagating

1. **Double-check the CNAME record:**

   - Host should be `docs` (not `docs.cloudeval.ai`)
   - Value should be `ganakailabs.github.io` (no `https://`, no trailing slash)

2. **Clear DNS cache:**

   ```bash
   # macOS
   sudo dscacheutil -flushcache; sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder

   # Windows
   ipconfig /flushdns
   ```

3. **Wait longer:** DNS can take up to 48 hours to fully propagate

### GitHub Pages Not Recognizing Domain

1. Ensure the CNAME file exists in `gh-pages` branch root
2. Verify GitHub Settings → Pages shows the custom domain
3. Check for any error messages in GitHub Pages settings

### SSL Certificate Not Provisioning

1. Wait 24 hours after DNS propagation
2. Ensure DNS is correctly configured
3. Check GitHub Pages settings for error messages
4. Try removing and re-adding the custom domain in GitHub

## Common Namecheap Issues

### Issue: Can't find Advanced DNS tab

- Make sure you're on the domain management page
- Some domains might use Namecheap BasicDNS (free) - you may need to switch to PremiumDNS or use custom nameservers

### Issue: TTL options are limited

- Select the shortest available TTL (usually 30 min or 1 hour)
- This helps with faster propagation

### Issue: Record not saving

- Make sure there are no extra spaces in the Host or Value fields
- Ensure you're clicking "Save All Changes" (green checkmark)

## Expected Timeline

1. **DNS Configuration:** Immediate (after saving in Namecheap)
2. **DNS Propagation:** 1-4 hours (can take up to 48 hours)
3. **GitHub SSL Certificate:** 10 minutes to 1 hour after DNS propagates
4. **Total Setup Time:** Typically 2-6 hours, maximum 48 hours

## Final Checklist

- [ ] CNAME record added in Namecheap (Host: `docs`, Value: `ganakailabs.github.io`)
- [ ] Changes saved in Namecheap
- [ ] Custom domain configured in GitHub Settings → Pages
- [ ] CNAME file exists in repository (`docs/CNAME`)
- [ ] DNS propagated (verified with dig/nslookup)
- [ ] SSL certificate provisioned (check GitHub Pages settings)
- [ ] HTTPS enforced in GitHub Pages settings
- [ ] Site accessible at `https://docs.cloudeval.ai`

## Support

If you encounter issues:

- [Namecheap Support](https://www.namecheap.com/support/)
- [GitHub Pages Documentation](https://docs.github.com/pages)
- [GitHub Community Forum](https://github.community/)

Commit message:

Add comprehensive documentation for cloudeval, including setup guides, tutorials, and troubleshooting sections. Introduced blog subdomain setup instructions and updated existing documentation to reflect repository changes. Enhanced content organization and added new features like AI chat and collaboration tools.

NAMECHEAP_DNS_SETUP.md, after:

# Namecheap DNS Setup for docs.cloudeval.ai

This guide provides step-by-step instructions for configuring DNS in Namecheap to use `docs.cloudeval.ai` with GitHub Pages.

## Prerequisites

- Domain `cloudeval.ai` registered with Namecheap
- GitHub repository with GitHub Pages enabled
- GitHub Pages base URL: `ganakailabs.github.io` (or your username/organization)

## Step-by-Step Namecheap DNS Configuration

### Step 1: Access Namecheap Domain List

1. Log in to your Namecheap account
2. Go to **Domain List** from the left sidebar
3. Click **Manage** next to `cloudeval.ai`

### Step 2: Navigate to Advanced DNS

1. Click on the **Advanced DNS** tab
2. You'll see a section called **Host Records**

### Step 3: Add CNAME Record

In the **Host Records** section, click **Add New Record** and configure:

**For the CNAME record:**

- **Type:** Select `CNAME Record` from the dropdown
- **Host:** Enter `docs`
- **Value:** Enter `ganakailabs.github.io` (replace with your GitHub username/organization if different)
- **TTL:** Select `Automatic` (or `30 min` if automatic is not available)

**Important Notes:**

- The **Host** field should be just `docs` (not `docs.cloudeval.ai`)
- The **Value** should be your GitHub Pages base URL: `ganakailabs.github.io` (without `https://` or trailing slashes)
- Do NOT include the repository path in the value

### Step 4: Save the Record

1. Click the **Save All Changes** button (green checkmark icon)
2. Wait for the confirmation message

### Step 5: Verify the Record

After saving, you should see a record like this in your Host Records:

```
Type: CNAME Record
Host: docs
Value: ganakailabs.github.io
TTL: Automatic
```

## Complete Configuration Summary

Here's what your Namecheap DNS should have for the main documentation:

| Type  | Host | Value                 | TTL       |
| ----- | ---- | --------------------- | --------- |
| CNAME | docs | ganakailabs.github.io | Automatic |

### Additional: Blog Subdomain (Optional)

If you want to set up `blog.cloudeval.ai` as a separate subdomain, add another CNAME record:

| Type  | Host | Value                 | TTL       |
| ----- | ---- | --------------------- | --------- |
| CNAME | blog | ganakailabs.github.io | Automatic |

**Note:** This requires a separate repository for the blog. See [BLOG_SUBDOMAIN_SETUP.md](BLOG_SUBDOMAIN_SETUP.md) for complete setup instructions.

## Next Steps (After DNS Configuration)

### 1. Configure GitHub Repository

1. Go to your GitHub repository: `https://github.com/ganakailabs/cloudeval`
2. Navigate to **Settings** → **Pages**
3. In the **Custom domain** field, enter: `docs.cloudeval.ai`
4. Click **Save**
5. Wait a few minutes, then check **Enforce HTTPS** and enable it

### 2. Verify CNAME File

The `docs/CNAME` file has been created in the repository. This file will be automatically deployed to the `gh-pages` branch by the GitHub Actions workflow.

The file contains:

```
docs.cloudeval.ai
```

### 3. Wait for DNS Propagation

- **Typical time:** 1-4 hours
- **Maximum time:** Up to 24-48 hours

You can check propagation status at:

- [whatsmydns.net](https://www.whatsmydns.net/#CNAME/docs.cloudeval.ai)
- Or use command line: `dig docs.cloudeval.ai CNAME`

### 4. Wait for SSL Certificate

After DNS propagates, GitHub will automatically provision an SSL certificate:

- Usually takes 10 minutes to 1 hour
- Check status in GitHub Settings → Pages → Custom domain
- Once ready, enable **Enforce HTTPS**

## Verification Commands

After configuring DNS, verify with these commands:

```bash
# Check CNAME record
dig docs.cloudeval.ai CNAME +short

# Expected output:
# ganakailabs.github.io.

# Check if domain resolves
nslookup docs.cloudeval.ai

# Or using dig
dig docs.cloudeval.ai
```

## Troubleshooting

### DNS Not Propagating

1. **Double-check the CNAME record:**

   - Host should be `docs` (not `docs.cloudeval.ai`)
   - Value should be `ganakailabs.github.io` (no `https://`, no trailing slash)

2. **Clear DNS cache:**

   ```bash
   # macOS
   sudo dscacheutil -flushcache; sudo killall -HUP mDNSResponder

   # Windows
   ipconfig /flushdns
   ```

3. **Wait longer:** DNS can take up to 48 hours to fully propagate

### GitHub Pages Not Recognizing Domain

1. Ensure the CNAME file exists in `gh-pages` branch root
2. Verify GitHub Settings → Pages shows the custom domain
3. Check for any error messages in GitHub Pages settings

### SSL Certificate Not Provisioning

1. Wait 24 hours after DNS propagation
2. Ensure DNS is correctly configured
3. Check GitHub Pages settings for error messages
4. Try removing and re-adding the custom domain in GitHub

## Common Namecheap Issues

### Issue: Can't find Advanced DNS tab

- Make sure you're on the domain management page
- Some domains might use Namecheap BasicDNS (free) - you may need to switch to PremiumDNS or use custom nameservers

### Issue: TTL options are limited

- Select the shortest available TTL (usually 30 min or 1 hour)
- This helps with faster propagation

### Issue: Record not saving

- Make sure there are no extra spaces in the Host or Value fields
- Ensure you're clicking "Save All Changes" (green checkmark)

## Expected Timeline

1. **DNS Configuration:** Immediate (after saving in Namecheap)
2. **DNS Propagation:** 1-4 hours (can take up to 48 hours)
3. **GitHub SSL Certificate:** 10 minutes to 1 hour after DNS propagates
4. **Total Setup Time:** Typically 2-6 hours, maximum 48 hours

## Final Checklist

- [ ] CNAME record added in Namecheap (Host: `docs`, Value: `ganakailabs.github.io`)
- [ ] Changes saved in Namecheap
- [ ] Custom domain configured in GitHub Settings → Pages
- [ ] CNAME file exists in repository (`docs/CNAME`)
- [ ] DNS propagated (verified with dig/nslookup)
- [ ] SSL certificate provisioned (check GitHub Pages settings)
- [ ] HTTPS enforced in GitHub Pages settings
- [ ] Site accessible at `https://docs.cloudeval.ai`

## Support

If you encounter issues:

- [Namecheap Support](https://www.namecheap.com/support/)
- [GitHub Pages Documentation](https://docs.github.com/pages)
- [GitHub Community Forum](https://github.community/)
